use environment variable with decK (#3320)
Kong/docs.konghq.com: app/deck/1.8.x/guides/environment-variables.md

---
title: Using environment variables with decK
toc: false
---

When you use deck to apply configurations to Kong, decK reads data in plain text on a state file by default. To add more security, you can also store sensitive information, for example `apiKey`, `client_secret` in environment variables. decK can then read data directly from environment variables and apply it.

> What you need to do is to create environment variables with `DECK_` prefix and reference them as `{%raw%}${{ env "DECK_*" }}{%endraw%}` on your state file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create environment variables with the `DECK_` prefix and reference them as 
`{%raw%}${{ env "DECK_*" }}{%endraw%}` in your state file.
```

> Below example demonstrates how to apply apiKey stored in environment variable. It enables [key authentication][key-auth] plugin globally, create a consumer `demo` with an apiKey.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example demonstrates how to apply an apiKey stored in an environment variable. 
You can use this method for any sensitive content. 
```
I'm moving the info about the global plugin and consumer into the steps where that happens.

> 1. Create Environment variable

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create an environment variable:
```

    <div class="copy-code-snippet"><pre><code>export DECK_API_KEY=<div contenteditable="true">{API_KEY}</div></code></pre></div>

> 2. Save below to `env-demo.yaml` 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Save the following snippet into a `env-demo.yaml` file:
```

    ```yaml
    _format_version: "1.1"
    consumers:
    - keyauth_credentials:
      - key: ${{ env "DECK_API_KEY" }}
      username: demo
      id: 36718320-e67d-4162-8b50-aa685e06c64c
    plugins:
    - config:
        anonymous: null
        hide_credentials: false
        key_in_body: false
        key_in_header: true
        key_in_query: true
        key_names:
        - apikey
        run_on_preflight: true
      enabled: true
      name: key-auth
      protocols:
      - grpc
      - grpcs
      - http
      - https
    ```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    This snippet enables the [key authentication][key-auth] plugin globally and creates
     a consumer named `demo` with an apiKey.
```

3. Run `deck sync -s env-demo.yaml` to sync this file.

> 4. You will see below output. In this example, `abc` is the apiKey I stored in environment variable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The output should look something like this, where `abc` is the apiKey stored 
    in the environment variable:
```
Since this is more of a result of the step and not a step itself, I'm combining it with the previous step.

---
title: Using environment variables with decK
toc: false
---

When you use decK to apply configurations to {{site.base_gateway}},
decK reads data in plain text from a state file by default. To improve security, you 
can also store sensitive information, for example `apiKey` or `client_secret`, in 
environment variables. decK can then read data directly from the environment
variables and apply it.

Create environment variables with the `DECK_` prefix and reference them as 
`{%raw%}${{ env "DECK_*" }}{%endraw%}` in your state file.

The following example demonstrates how to apply an apiKey stored in an environment variable. 
You can use this method for any sensitive content. 

1. Create an environment variable:
    <div class="copy-code-snippet"><pre><code>export DECK_API_KEY=<div contenteditable="true">{API_KEY}</div></code></pre></div>

2. Save the following snippet into a `env-demo.yaml` file:

    ```yaml
    _format_version: "1.1"
    consumers:
    - keyauth_credentials:

>       - key: ${{ env "DECK_API_KEY" }}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - key: {%raw%}${{ env "DECK_API_KEY" }}{%endraw%}
```
